

## Shortest Path in Graph

A. Undirected Graph:

A.1. Single source Cyclic +1 Unit weights => BFS

A.2. Single source (+)ve weighted & (+)ve weighted cyclic => Dijikstra Algo

A.3. Single source (+/-)ve weighted & detects (return -1) (-)ve weighted cycle => Bellman Ford Algo

A.4. Multi source (+/-)ve weighted & detects (return -1) (-)ve weighted cycle => Floyd Warshall Algo

B. Directed Graph:

B.1. Single source (+/-) weighted Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) => TopoSort

B.2. Single source (+)ve weighted & (+)ve weighted cyclic => Dijikstra Algo

B.3. Single source (+/-)ve weighted & detects (return -1) (-)ve weighted cycle => Bellman Ford Algo

B.4. Multi source (+/-)ve weighted & detects (return -1) (-)ve weighted cycle => Floyd Warshall Algo

Minimum Spanning Tree : 
A spanning tree is a tree in which we have N nodes(i.e. All the nodes present in the original graph) and N-1 edges and all nodes are reachable from each other.
Among all possible spanning trees of a graph, the minimum spanning tree is the one for which the sum of all the edge weights is the minimum.
There may exist multiple minimum spanning trees for a graph like a graph may have multiple spanning trees.
There are a couple of algorithms that help us to find the minimum spanning tree of a graph. One is Prim’s algorithm and the other is Kruskal’s algorithm.

Disjoint Set:

The question is whether node 1 and node 5 are in the same component or not.
Approach:
Now, in order to solve this question we can use either the DFS or BFS traversal technique like if we traverse the components of the graph we can find that node 1 and node 5 are not in the same component. This is actually the brute force approach whose time complexity is O(N+E)(N = no. of nodes, E = no. of edges). 
But using a Disjoint Set data structure we can solve this same problem in constant time.
The disjoint Set data structure is generally used for dynamic graphs.
A dynamic graph generally refers to a graph that keeps on changing its configuration.
So, after any step, if we try to figure out whether two arbitrary nodes u and v belong to the same component or not, Disjoint Set will be able to answer this query in constant time.

The disjoint set data structure generally provides two types of functionalities:

Finding the parent for a particular node (findPar())
Union (in broad terms this method basically adds an edge between two nodes)
Union by rank
Union by size

